2:I[231,["138","static/chunks/138-8c65832770544a20.js","467","static/chunks/app/archive/page-bd7de989a7140b99.js"],""]
3:I[9380,["138","static/chunks/138-8c65832770544a20.js","467","static/chunks/app/archive/page-bd7de989a7140b99.js"],"default"]
4:I[4044,["138","static/chunks/138-8c65832770544a20.js","467","static/chunks/app/archive/page-bd7de989a7140b99.js"],"default"]
5:I[9275,[],""]
6:I[1343,[],""]
0:["r2g1Aa0Nu0rz1duDlwrM8",[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",{"children":["archive",{"children":["__PAGE__",{},[["$L1",["$","div",null,{"className":"archive_page__Fytpo","children":[["$","nav",null,{"className":"SiteNav_nav__XC0YO","aria-label":"Site navigation","children":[["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/","className":"SiteNav_wordmark__x_x2O","children":"Thinking in Public"}],["$","div",null,{"className":"SiteNav_right__7cFu3","children":[["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/archive","className":"SiteNav_link__QWflK","children":"Archive"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/about","className":"SiteNav_link__QWflK","children":"About"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/recommendations","className":"SiteNav_link__QWflK","children":"Picks"}],["$","$L3",null,{"label":"Subscribe","size":"small"}]]}]]}],["$","main",null,{"className":"archive_main__1yQFv","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive_header__FyIpC","children":[["$","h1",null,{"className":"archive_heading__8SF5J","children":"Archive"}],["$","p",null,{"className":"archive_subheading___KnW1","children":[30," posts — ",10," free,"," ",20," paid"]}]]}],["$","$L4",null,{"posts":[{"id":1,"slug":"design-is-mostly-craft","title":"Design Is Still Mostly Craft","subtitle":"On the unglamorous accumulation of small decisions made well","date":"2024-05-10","category":"Essay","excerpt":"We talk about design as strategy, as storytelling, as research. But most of what makes design work is the unglamorous accumulation of small decisions made well.","fullText":["There is a version of design that gets written about in think-pieces and celebrated at conferences — design as systems thinking, design as empathy at scale, design as the invisible hand that shapes behavior. This version is real, and it matters. But it is not what most designers do most of the time. Most of the time, design is craft: the choice of which typeface weight to use for a secondary label, the exact amount of padding that makes a card feel open rather than cramped, the color that reads as muted without feeling dead.","The elevation of design strategy — I think — happened partly because craft is hard to write about and strategy is easy. You can explain a design decision framework in a blog post. You cannot easily explain why a particular shadow radius feels more honest than its neighbor. Craft knowledge is embodied, accumulated slowly, and transmitted through doing rather than reading. The people who are best at it are often the worst at describing what makes them good.","I have been thinking about this for the past year, working on a long-form piece about tacit knowledge in creative fields. What I keep returning to is how the digital design world has systematically undervalued craft in favor of process — and how this has produced work that is coherent but not beautiful, usable but not memorable. The tools have never been better. The craft bar has never been lower. These two facts are related."],"free":true,"readTime":8},{"id":2,"slug":"on-building-in-public","title":"On Building in Public","subtitle":"The accountability structures that actually work","date":"2024-05-03","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Building in public is not about transparency for its own sake. It is about creating accountability structures that make you build the thing you actually said you would.","fullText":["I have been building in public for two years now — sharing revenue numbers, posting failure postmortems, narrating decisions as I make them. The number I hear most from people considering doing the same thing is about audience growth. They want to know how many followers they will gain. This is the wrong question. The right question is: what kind of accountability do you want to create for yourself?","Accountability is the real product of building in public. When you commit to showing your numbers, you stop rounding up in your own head. When you post about what you are working on, you become accountable to a version of yourself that exists in public, and that version is harder to quietly abandon than the one living only in your notes app. The audience is almost incidental — what matters is the external record.","The darker side of this, which is less often written about, is that public accountability creates perverse incentives if you are not careful. The pressure to show progress can make you optimize for visible metrics over meaningful ones. The temptation to curate the narrative — to make the failures legible and the wins more dramatic — is constant. Building in public honestly requires a daily practice of resisting the story you want to tell about yourself in favor of the one that is actually true."],"free":true,"readTime":6},{"id":3,"slug":"myth-of-the-10x-engineer","title":"The Myth of the 10x Engineer","subtitle":"What the data actually says about individual productivity","date":"2024-04-26","category":"Essay","excerpt":"The 10x engineer trope survives because it flatters the people who believe they are one. The data, when you actually look for it, tells a more nuanced story about systems and context.","fullText":["The original research behind the 10x claim is almost never cited correctly. The 1968 Sackman, Erikson, and Grant study found variance of up to 28x in programmer performance on specific coding tasks — but this was an artifact of the tasks chosen, the measurement method, and a sample so small as to be statistically unreliable. Nearly every citation of the finding since then has laundered these caveats away until the myth is clean and portable: some engineers are ten times better than others, full stop.","What the better research — DeMarco and Lister's Peopleware, for example, or more recently the work on developer experience — consistently shows is that individual performance variance is swamped by environmental variance. The same engineer in a high-interrupt environment versus a protected deep-work environment performs at dramatically different levels. The 10x engineer is often simply the engineer in the 10x environment. Move them, and the multiplier moves with the context.","This is uncomfortable for a hiring culture that wants to believe talent is the primary variable. If the environment matters more than the individual, then the highest-leverage thing a company can do is fix its environment — reduce interruptions, improve tooling, clarify decision rights, shrink coordination costs. These are unglamorous infrastructure investments. It is easier, and more satisfying, to believe you are trying to find the hero."],"free":true,"readTime":9},{"id":4,"slug":"slow-newsletter-defence","title":"In Defence of the Slow Newsletter","subtitle":"Why publishing less might mean saying more","date":"2024-04-19","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Daily newsletters optimize for presence. Weekly newsletters optimize for thinking. There is a case to be made for monthly, for quarterly, for whenever-I-have-something-worth-saying.","fullText":["The dominant logic of content publishing is volume. Post more, publish more, show up in the inbox more often. The argument is that presence is itself a form of trust — that the reader who sees your name every day has a different relationship with you than the reader who sees it once a month. There is truth in this. But there is also a cost, and the cost is almost never calculated: what you lose by publishing before you are ready.","I publish this newsletter irregularly. Sometimes there is a week between issues. Sometimes there is five weeks. Every time I stretch the gap, I get emails asking if I am okay, whether I have stopped writing, whether they should worry. The assumption encoded in this response is that the content calendar is a contract — that I have implicitly promised a regular appearance and am in breach by not delivering. I reject this framing. The contract, if there is one, is around quality and honesty, not cadence.","The writers I read most carefully are mostly slow. They include people who publish yearly books, people who post occasionally on their own website with no announcement, people who write long-form essays on six-month cycles. What they share is a relationship with their material that is longer than a publication cycle. They are not covering the topic; they are living with it. The result is a kind of depth that I cannot produce on a Tuesday because the slot is empty and readers are waiting."],"free":true,"readTime":5},{"id":5,"slug":"thousand-cold-emails","title":"What I Learned from 1,000 Cold Emails","subtitle":"A three-year experiment in reaching strangers","date":"2024-04-12","category":"Essay","excerpt":"Cold email has a terrible reputation and a surprisingly high ceiling. After sending one thousand of them over three years, here is what actually moves the needle.","fullText":["The cold email advice you find online is mostly written by people who have sent a few hundred. A few hundred is enough to develop opinions, but not enough to wash out the variance. I have sent just over a thousand over the past three years — to journalists, investors, potential collaborators, sources for pieces I was working on, and people whose work I admired and wanted to meet. The reply rate, averaged across everything, is about 34%. For the emails I consider well-crafted, it is closer to 55%.","The single variable that predicts reply rate better than any other is specificity of the ask. Not length, not subject line, not flattery (which is actively harmful above a certain threshold), not the social proof you include in your signature. Specificity. The emails that work are the ones where the recipient can understand in ten seconds exactly what I want, why I am asking them specifically, and what saying yes will cost them in time and effort. Vague asks get vague treatment — which is silence.","The thing I wish I had understood earlier is that cold email is a practice, not a tactic. The people who use it best have developed a muscle over years of iteration — they have learned to read their own patterns, to notice when they are being lazy about the specificity of the ask, to recognize which requests are genuinely reasonable and which are extractive. The skill compounds slowly. The first hundred emails feel like shouting into a void. By the time you hit five hundred, you start to feel the feedback loop."],"free":true,"readTime":11},{"id":6,"slug":"case-for-boring-tools","title":"The Case for Boring Tools","subtitle":"Why stable software outlasts the hype cycle","date":"2024-04-05","category":"Thread","excerpt":"Every year there is a new stack. Every year the old stack gets more stable and faster. The engineers quietly using boring tools are often the most productive people in the room.","fullText":["Every few months, a new tool arrives with the promise of solving the fundamental problem of software development — which is not technically a hard problem, but a human one. The new tool is faster, or more ergonomic, or backed by a compelling philosophical framework that maps onto how developers actually think. And it might be all of these things. The issue is not that the tool is bad. The issue is that adopting a new tool has a cost that is mostly invisible at adoption time and mostly visible six months later.","The invisible cost is context. When you use a tool that is three years old, there are three years of Stack Overflow answers, forum posts, blog essays, and accumulated community knowledge about its failure modes. When you use a tool that is three months old, you are often the person who finds the failure mode. This is fine if finding failure modes is the point of the exercise — if you are a core contributor, if you enjoy this kind of exploration. It is not fine if you are trying to ship product for a business that depends on the software working.","The engineers I admire most have a highly calibrated sense of when to adopt newness and when to resist it. They are not Luddites. They are not attached to the familiar out of laziness. They have simply developed a cost model for adoption that accounts for the uncertainty premium on new tools, and they apply it consistently. They tend to be early adopters of paradigm shifts — the move from REST to GraphQL, the shift to containerized deployment — and late adopters of tactical improvements. The distinction between paradigm and tactic is the skill."],"free":true,"readTime":7},{"id":7,"slug":"notes-on-attention","title":"Notes on Attention","subtitle":"What the attention economy framing actually describes","date":"2024-03-29","category":"Essay","excerpt":"The attention economy framing has become so common that we have stopped seeing what it actually describes. Attention is not a resource. It is how you construct reality.","fullText":["The attention economy framing — the idea that tech companies compete for a finite resource called your attention — has been so successful as a metaphor that it has obscured what it describes. It makes attention sound like oil: a stuff that can be extracted, traded, and depleted. But attention is not a stuff. It is a process. It is the ongoing act of deciding what is real and what matters. To say that a company has captured your attention is not to say they have taken something from you; it is to say they have shaped, at least temporarily, your sense of what deserves to count.","This reframing changes the stakes. If attention is a resource, the harm is depletion — you have less of it after the extraction than before. If attention is a construction process, the harm is distortion — the reality you build from your attentional practice is different than the one you would build with a different practice. The question is not how much attention you have left; it is what kind of reality your attentional habits are constructing, and whether that reality is one you endorse on reflection.","I have been thinking about this in the context of deep reading. There is a well-documented finding that heavy internet use correlates with diminished capacity for sustained reading — the ability to follow a long argument across many pages, to hold a complex structure in mind while processing new material. The usual framing is that we have used up our attention and have none left for books. But I think what has happened is that we have trained a different attentional habit — one optimized for short, high-reward bursts — and that habit is now the default from which reading must borrow. The capacity is not gone. It has been restructured."],"free":true,"readTime":8},{"id":8,"slug":"stopped-tracking-everything","title":"Why I Stopped Tracking Everything","subtitle":"Two years of quantified self, and what I learned from quitting","date":"2024-03-22","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"For two years I logged every meal, every hour of sleep, every workout. The data was interesting. The life it produced was not. Here is what I learned from stopping.","fullText":["In 2021 I started tracking my life in earnest. Not just steps and sleep — I was already doing that — but everything: caloric intake broken down by macronutrient, time spent on each project, mood ratings three times a day, hours of direct sunlight, pages read, money spent by category, words written. I used five apps and two spreadsheets. The data was rich and, in isolation, genuinely interesting. I could tell you exactly how my mood correlated with sleep quality, and how both correlated with morning sunlight. I had a model of myself.","The problem was not the data. The problem was what having the data did to the experience of living. Eating became an optimization problem rather than a pleasure. I found myself, at the end of a dinner with a friend, calculating the macro split of the meal while she was mid-sentence. Exercise was not exercise — it was data collection. I was living slightly outside my life, holding a clipboard. The quantified self project, as I had implemented it, had turned me into an observer of my experience rather than a participant in it.","What I replaced tracking with — and this is the part I could not have predicted — was attention. Not the managed, directed attention of a protocol, but undirected noticing. I try to pay attention to what I enjoy, what costs me energy, what time of day I feel most alive, without writing any of it down. The result is a kind of knowledge that is less precise but more embodied. I know things about myself now that I did not know when I was measuring everything. They are harder to share, which is maybe why tracking culture has no interest in them."],"free":true,"readTime":6},{"id":9,"slug":"internet-getting-smaller","title":"The Internet Is Getting Smaller","subtitle":"What we lost when discovery became confirmation","date":"2024-03-15","category":"Essay","excerpt":"Search used to be discovery. Now it is confirmation. The algorithms have optimized us into comfortable filter bubbles and called it personalization.","fullText":["There is a version of the early web that was genuinely strange. Not strange in the romantic sense — not the nostalgia of people who remember dial-up with fondness — but strange in the sense of reliably producing encounters with the unexpected. You could follow a link from a site about woodworking to a site about Mesopotamian linguistics to a personal essay about insomnia, and none of it would feel incongruous, because the web of the late 1990s had no taste. It did not know what you were interested in. It could only give you what was there.","The algorithms have solved this problem — the problem of not knowing what you want — and in solving it, they have produced an internet that is coherent and boring. When I search for something now, I get results calibrated to my profile, my location, my search history, my device. When I scroll a feed, I see content chosen for its predicted relevance to someone who has already seen content like this. The serendipity is engineered out. What remains is optimization, dressed up as personalization.","The thing I notice most is the narrowing of my aesthetic range. The internet used to give me things I did not know I would like — music genres I had never considered, visual styles that had no name in my vocabulary, writing in modes I had not encountered. Now it gives me things like the things I already like, optimized for engagement. I have become a more coherent cultural consumer and a less interesting one. The algorithm has made me predictable, and in making me predictable, it has made me smaller."],"free":true,"readTime":12},{"id":10,"slug":"on-finishing-things","title":"On Finishing Things","subtitle":"The gap between what you imagined and what you made","date":"2024-03-08","category":"Essay","excerpt":"Starting is easy. The first 10% of any project is all potential energy. Finishing requires you to confront the gap between what you imagined and what you made.","fullText":["Every project I have ever started had a better version that lived, briefly, in the period before I began making it. This is not a failure of execution — it is a structural feature of the relationship between imagination and production. Imagination is unconstrained; production is constrained by everything: time, skill, the stubbornness of material. The gap between what you imagine and what you make is not a deficit to be overcome. It is the record of your encounter with reality.","The people who finish things are not, I have come to believe, the people who feel less of this gap. They are the people who have made a different peace with it. They finish despite the gap, not because it has closed. They have developed a tolerance for the disappointment of the actual that allows them to keep working past the point where the project is still interesting in the way it was when it was only potential. This is a skill, and like most skills, it is mostly developed through practice rather than insight.","What helped me most was stopping thinking of an unfinished project as a failure and starting to think of it as a decision. Every abandoned project is a choice to spend your time on something else, made implicitly and usually at the worst moment — when the project is hardest and the distance to completion is hardest to see. Making that choice explicit, naming it, does not make it disappear. But it makes the next project slightly easier to push through, because you know now what abandonment feels like from the inside, and you have named it as a thing you are choosing not to do."],"free":true,"readTime":7},{"id":11,"slug":"how-i-read","title":"How I Read: A System for the Slow and Curious","subtitle":"The annotation method, review cadence, and linking practice I have iterated for a decade","date":"2024-05-07","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Reading is not about the books you finish. It is about the ideas that change the way you see. Here is the system I have iterated to over a decade.","fullText":["Most reading advice is about speed — how to read faster, how to retain more per hour, how to process more books per year. This advice is solving the wrong problem. The bottleneck in reading is not ingestion; it is integration. The bottleneck is not how many ideas you encounter but how many ideas change how you see things. You can read two hundred books a year and have none of them matter. You can read twelve and have each one restructure something.","The system I use is built around a principle I call slow reentry. When I finish a book — or a long essay, or a podcast episode worth taking seriously — I do not move immediately to the next thing. I wait at least three days, then I write a one-page response: not a summary, but a letter to myself about what I think differently because of this material. The letter is not archived or shared. Its only purpose is to force the integration that passive reading does not.","The second component is a monthly review of my highlights — I use Readwise to surface them — not to review the highlights themselves but to notice which ones I still find interesting a month later. Most do not survive the month. The ones that do go into a note that I title \"things that held.\" Over time, the things that held become the skeleton of my actual thinking — not borrowed ideas, but ideas I have tested against time and found still true. This is slower than any productivity framework recommends. It is also the only thing that has ever actually worked for me."],"free":false,"readTime":10},{"id":12,"slug":"pricing-psychology-playbook","title":"The Pricing Psychology Playbook","subtitle":"Mental models for pricing, anchoring, and value capture","date":"2024-04-30","category":"Essay","excerpt":"Pricing is the highest-leverage lever in any product. Most founders treat it as an afterthought. This is the mental model I use to think about pricing and value capture.","fullText":["The first thing most people get wrong about pricing is that it is about cost. It is not about cost. It is about value — specifically, about the gap between the value the customer receives and the price they pay, and how much of that gap you can close without pushing them out of the market. Cost is a floor; it tells you the minimum you must charge. Value is a ceiling; it tells you the maximum you could theoretically charge. Everything in between is judgment.","Anchoring is the most powerful tool in the pricing toolkit, and the most misused. The anchor is not the price you want the customer to pay; it is the reference point against which they evaluate your price. You can set the anchor, or you can let the customer set it from their own experience, which is almost always worse for you. The way to set a strong anchor is to lead with the highest-value framing of what you are selling before you introduce any number at all. This sounds obvious. Almost no one does it.","The mental model I return to most often is the question: what is the customer comparing this to? They are always comparing your price to something — a competitor, a substitute, the cost of doing without, the cost of doing it themselves. The comparison set determines the price sensitivity. Change the comparison set, and you change the price sensitivity, without changing the price. A $200/year newsletter subscription feels expensive compared to a free newsletter. It feels cheap compared to a one-day consulting engagement. The question is not what your product costs. The question is what the customer thinks they are choosing between."],"free":false,"readTime":15},{"id":13,"slug":"second-brain-that-works","title":"Building a Second Brain That Actually Works","subtitle":"The modified PARA system I have been running for 18 months","date":"2024-04-23","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Tiago Forte's PARA system is elegant in theory and difficult in practice. Here is the version I have been running for 18 months, with the exact folder structure.","fullText":["I tried the standard PARA implementation twice before it stuck. The first time, I abandoned it after six weeks because the category boundaries were not clear enough in practice — too many things wanted to live in multiple places at once, and the friction of deciding killed the habit. The second time, I used it for four months before I realized I had built a beautiful archive of things I never looked at. The filing was working. The retrieval was not.","The version I run now is built around a single modification: instead of organizing by project or area, I organize by question. Every folder has a question at the top — not a category label, but something like \"what do I know about how creative habits form?\" or \"what have I read about pricing?\" When I add a note, I ask which questions it helps answer, and I file it under those questions. When I am working on a piece, I start by listing the questions it needs to answer, which leads me directly to the relevant material.","The practical result is a knowledge system I actually use during writing — not as an archive to search, but as a thinking partner to consult. The question-based structure means the material is already in the shape of an answer when I find it, which makes the gap between having information and being able to use it much smaller. The tradeoff is that setting up the questions takes more thought than setting up a category. You have to know what you are curious about before you file. For me, this front-loading of effort is worth the payoff."],"free":false,"readTime":14},{"id":14,"slug":"writing-for-the-long-run","title":"Writing for the Long Run","subtitle":"What a five-year newsletter has taught me about sustainable creative practice","date":"2024-04-16","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Five years into publishing this newsletter, here is what I know about the creative habits that survive versus the ones that burn out.","fullText":["The thing about a five-year creative practice is that it contains multiple collapsed versions of itself. I have published this newsletter through periods when writing was easy and periods when each issue felt like it was being extracted by force. I have been through the phase of caring too much about numbers and the phase of not caring enough. I have tried every scheduling system, every content calendar, every productivity tool that promised to make the process easier. Most of them helped briefly and then became their own kind of friction.","What has persisted through all of this is something I can only describe as a relationship with the material. There is a set of questions I am always working on — about attention, about craft, about the economics of creative work — and the newsletter is how I think about them out loud. The format is a constraint that serves the practice: the commitment to publish forces me to resolve the thinking, even imperfectly, rather than letting it live forever as unfinished notes. This is different from having a content calendar. A content calendar asks \"what will you write next week?\" The relationship with material asks \"what are you thinking about right now that is almost ready?\"","The practical upshot, for anyone trying to build a sustainable writing practice: find the questions you will still care about in five years, and organize your reading and thinking around those questions rather than around topics. Topics get exhausted. Questions deepen with time. The difference in the writing this produces is not subtle — you can feel it in the density of the thought, in the specificity of the examples, in the absence of the anxious filler that fills essays written to a deadline rather than from a surplus."],"free":false,"readTime":11},{"id":15,"slug":"reader-questions-april","title":"Reader Questions, April Edition","subtitle":"On creative blocks, audience building, and whether to use a pen name","date":"2024-04-09","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Every month I answer subscriber questions. This month: creative blocks, building an audience from zero, and the pen name question.","fullText":["The question I get most often — in various forms — is about creative blocks. How do I start when starting feels impossible? How do I keep going when the middle is a swamp? How do I finish when the gap between what I imagined and what I have made feels unbridgeable? I have answered versions of this question many times, but I want to try a different answer here, one that I think is closer to true: creative blocks are usually information. They are telling you something about the project or about yourself that you are not yet ready to see.","On building an audience from zero: the advice I give most often is to write as if you already have the audience you want, not the one you have. This sounds like cope, but it is actually practical. When you write for a hypothetical reader who is smart and curious and already interested in the questions you are working on, you make different choices than when you write for a general audience or for no one. You use less scaffolding. You go faster to the interesting part. You trust the reader more. This produces better writing, which is the only reliable way to grow an audience.","On pen names: use one if your real name is attached to professional contexts that would be complicated by the writing, if you are working through material that is genuinely personal and you need the distance, or if you simply want a name that fits the persona of the work better. Do not use one to avoid accountability for your ideas — readers can smell this, and it makes the writing less honest. A pen name is a costume, not a mask. The thinking still has to be yours."],"free":false,"readTime":9},{"id":16,"slug":"episode-1-creative-practice","title":"Episode 1: The Creative Practice Problem","subtitle":"A conversation with James Huang about systems, consistency, and the myth of inspiration","date":"2024-03-31","category":"Podcast","excerpt":"First episode of the Thinking in Public audio series. I sat down with productivity researcher James Huang to talk about creative routines, systems, and why inspiration is overrated.","fullText":["In this first episode, I sit down with James Huang, who has spent the past decade studying creative practitioners across disciplines — writers, composers, architects, game designers — trying to understand what separates sustained creative output from the burst-and-burnout pattern that characterizes most creative careers. His findings are counterintuitive in places and confirmatory in others, and the conversation was one of the most clarifying I have had on this subject.","We talk at length about the distinction between systems and habits — why most productivity advice conflates two things that work very differently in practice, and why designing a system that accommodates your worst days is more important than designing a system for your best. James makes the case that the most productive creative practitioners he has studied are not the most disciplined; they are the most forgiving of themselves in low-energy periods, which paradoxically produces more output over time by preventing the shame spiral that follows \"falling off the habit.\"","We also get into the question of environment design — how the physical and digital spaces we work in shape our creative behavior in ways we mostly do not notice. James has done controlled studies on this, and the results are striking: small environmental changes produce larger behavioral changes than large motivational interventions. The episode is about an hour long. I hope it is useful."],"free":false,"readTime":4},{"id":17,"slug":"episode-2-attention-deep-work","title":"Episode 2: Attention, Deep Work, and the New Distraction","subtitle":"With neuroscientist Dr. Priya Sharma on what focused work actually requires","date":"2024-03-24","category":"Podcast","excerpt":"Episode two of the audio series. Dr. Priya Sharma joins to talk about the neuroscience of focused attention and what the research actually says about deep work.","fullText":["Dr. Priya Sharma is a cognitive neuroscientist at UT Austin whose research focuses on sustained attention — how the brain maintains focus over extended periods, how this capacity degrades, and what can be done to restore it. Her work is directly relevant to anyone who tries to do intellectually demanding creative work, and I found this conversation more practically useful than most books I have read on the subject.","The key finding from her research that I want to flag for listeners: the degradation of sustained attention from heavy digital media use is real, measurable, and — importantly — substantially reversible. This is different from what the more pessimistic accounts suggest. The brain retains significant plasticity for this capacity into middle age, and the interventions that restore it are simpler than most people assume. Dr. Sharma explains what the research actually shows about attention restoration, and it is more nuanced than the popular \"do a digital detox\" advice.","We also discuss the concept of attentional residue — the finding that after switching tasks, part of your attention remains engaged with the previous task for longer than people assume, degrading performance on the new task in ways that are invisible from the inside. This has significant implications for how to structure a creative workday, and Dr. Sharma has practical suggestions based on her lab's research. This episode is for anyone who has wondered why deep work feels harder than it used to."],"free":false,"readTime":4},{"id":18,"slug":"video-essay-writing-online","title":"Video Essay: The History of Writing Online","subtitle":"From personal homepages to algorithmic feeds — how publishing has changed writers","date":"2024-03-17","category":"Video","excerpt":"A 20-minute video essay tracing how the economics of online publishing have changed not just the business of writing but the writing itself.","fullText":["This video essay covers about twenty years of online writing history, from the early blogging era through the rise of platforms, the social media decade, and the current moment of newsletter and subscription publishing. I made it because I kept having conversations about \"what the internet has done to writing\" that felt like they were missing the economic dimension — the way changes in how writers are paid have shaped, at a deep level, what writers write.","The core argument is this: every publishing format creates incentives, and writers respond to incentives even when they do not notice they are doing so. Blogging created incentives for frequency and provocation. Social media created incentives for brevity and emotional intensity. The subscription model creates incentives for depth and reliability. None of these incentives are neutral — they all push the writing in particular directions, and the writing that gets celebrated as \"great online writing\" is usually the writing that has fully internalized the incentive structure of its platform.","The video is about twenty minutes. I have included links to the primary sources in the companion piece that goes along with it, which is available to paid subscribers. The companion piece has about 3,000 words of additional material that I could not fit into the video format without losing the argument."],"free":false,"readTime":3},{"id":19,"slug":"the-annual-review-template","title":"The Annual Review Template I Actually Use","subtitle":"Sixteen questions, no cheerleading, honest accounting","date":"2024-03-10","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Most annual review templates are designed to make you feel good. Mine is designed to make you see clearly. Sixteen questions, no cheerleading, honest accounting of the year.","fullText":["The annual review template industry is dominated by positivity. Most templates are structured to help you celebrate the wins, reframe the losses, and write an inspiring story about the year you just had. This is fine if you want to feel good. It is not useful if you want to understand what actually happened and make better decisions going forward. The template I have developed over the past seven years is structured around a different question: what is actually true?","The sixteen questions are divided into four sections: what happened (factual accounting, no interpretation), what patterns I notice (looking across the facts for recurrent themes), what I would change (specific decisions, not general intentions), and what I am carrying forward (the practices, relationships, and commitments that proved their value this year). The questions in the \"what happened\" section are deliberately factual and slightly uncomfortable — they include things like \"list the three biggest mistakes you made this year\" and \"where did you spend money in ways you now regret?\"","The discomfort is the point. A review that only asks you to celebrate is not a review; it is a party. A review that requires you to name the mistakes and the regrets is an instrument for learning. The resistance people feel when they first encounter this format — the temptation to soften, to reframe, to find the silver lining before you have sat with the difficulty — is itself information. What you resist looking at is usually where the most useful learning lives."],"free":false,"readTime":12},{"id":20,"slug":"why-landing-page-not-converting","title":"Why Your Landing Page Is Not Converting","subtitle":"The diagnostic checklist I run through before any copy or design change","date":"2024-03-03","category":"Essay","excerpt":"I have reviewed 200+ landing pages. The same five mistakes appear across 80% of them. This is the diagnostic checklist I run through every time.","fullText":["After reviewing more than two hundred landing pages for founders, writers, and independent creators, I have seen enough patterns to say with confidence that most conversion problems are not mysterious. They are specific, diagnosable, and fixable. The challenge is that the people closest to the page are usually the worst-positioned to diagnose it — they are too close to the product and too invested in the current copy to see it the way a stranger sees it.","The five mistakes I see most often, in rough order of frequency: First, the headline describes what the product is rather than what the customer gets from it. Second, the copy front-loads features rather than leading with the problem the customer already knows they have. Third, the social proof is generic (\"thousands of satisfied customers\") rather than specific and attributable. Fourth, the call to action is placed before the reader has been given enough context to evaluate the offer. Fifth, there is a mismatch between the traffic source and the page — the page is written for a cold audience but the traffic is warm, or vice versa.","The diagnostic I run starts with reading the headline and subhead aloud and asking: if I knew nothing about this product, would I understand from these two lines what problem it solves and who it is for? If the answer is no, everything else is secondary. Fix the clarity before you optimize the conversion rate. A landing page that clearly communicates an irrelevant offer will always underperform a page that murkily communicates a relevant one — but at least with the murky page, you can fix the clarity. A page that is clear about an offer no one wants is already telling you the real problem."],"free":false,"readTime":11},{"id":21,"slug":"contract-clause-saved-business","title":"The Contract Clause That Saved My Business","subtitle":"What a difficult client taught me about protecting creative work","date":"2024-02-25","category":"Essay","excerpt":"Freelancers who do not use contracts are optimists. Freelancers who use bad contracts are equally exposed. This is the clause I added after a hard lesson.","fullText":["In 2022 I completed a large writing project for a client who decided, after delivery, that the work was not what they had imagined — not because it was deficient by any objective standard, but because their imagination had shifted during the engagement. This is a common pattern that freelancers experience and that most freelance contracts do not adequately address. The contract specified deliverables, timeline, and payment schedule. It did not specify what constituted completion, or what happened if the client's definition of completion changed after work began.","The clause I added after this experience is what I call a completion definition clause. It specifies, in writing, at the outset of the engagement, exactly what constitutes a completed deliverable — with enough specificity that a reasonable third party could evaluate whether the work meets the definition. It also specifies a revision limit and a process for the client to formally accept each deliverable at each stage of the project. Once accepted, a deliverable cannot be reopened for revision without a change order and additional payment.","The psychological effect of this clause, I have found, is as important as its legal effect. The process of writing the completion definition forces the client to articulate their expectations before the work begins, which surfaces misalignments early — when they are cheap to resolve — rather than late, when they are expensive. Many of the difficult client situations I have seen in my own work and in the work of peers stem not from bad faith but from unspoken assumptions that were never examined. The clause is an examination tool as much as it is a legal protection."],"free":false,"readTime":9},{"id":22,"slug":"thread-on-creative-routines","title":"Thread: What My Morning Actually Looks Like","subtitle":"No 5am wakeup, no cold plunge, just what actually works for me","date":"2024-02-18","category":"Thread","excerpt":"A real account of my creative morning routine — not the aspirational version, but the one I actually do, including the failed experiments that preceded it.","fullText":["Thread on my actual morning routine — not the ideal version, but the real one, with all the boring parts included. I am sharing this because most morning routine content is aspirational rather than descriptive, and aspirational content is almost useless as a practical guide. Wake at 6:30. Make coffee. Read something physical for 20-30 minutes — recently working through a book about the history of cartography that has nothing to do with my writing. This is not productivity reading. It is the part of the morning that reminds me that interesting things exist outside my own concerns.","Sit down to write at 7:15 or so. I do not check email or any platform before this. This is the most important single decision in my morning practice, and it is the one that took the longest to make a genuine habit — about eight months before it became automatic rather than an act of will. The first thirty minutes of writing is mostly warm-up — I am writing into the problem, not yet solving it. I have learned not to delete the warm-up material immediately. Sometimes there is something useful in it. More often there is not, but the act of warming up is itself necessary.","By 9am I have usually done the best writing I will do all day. I switch to email and administrative work at this point. The afternoon is for editing, research, and calls. I do not try to write new material in the afternoon — I have tried and the quality is consistently lower, and I have made my peace with this. The evening is not for work. This sounds like obvious advice, but it took me two years of burning out every six months to actually implement it."],"free":false,"readTime":6},{"id":23,"slug":"tools-for-writing","title":"The Tools I Use to Write","subtitle":"Software, hardware, and the thinking behind each choice","date":"2024-02-11","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"A complete accounting of the software and hardware I use for my writing practice, including the choices I have second-guessed and the ones I have not.","fullText":["Writing tools: I draft in iA Writer, revise in Ulysses, and do final structural editing in a printed document with a pen. This three-stage process sounds redundant until you understand why each stage uses a different medium. iA Writer is for drafting because it is frictionless and distraction-free. Ulysses is for revision because it has the structural tools — the ability to see multiple documents side by side, to reorganize sections — that iA Writer lacks. The printed document is for final editing because the physical page catches errors my eyes slide past on screen.","Reference and research: Readwise for surfacing highlights, Obsidian for storing notes and building connections between them, Pocket for article saving (though I am increasingly skeptical of my read-later habits — most things I save I do not read, and perhaps should not). I have a physical notebook that I use for morning writing and for conversations — I take notes by hand in meetings and transcribe anything worth keeping into Obsidian within 24 hours.","Hardware: a MacBook Pro for most work, an iPad for reading and annotation, a mechanical keyboard at my desk that I chose for tactile feel rather than any performance benefit. I am not religious about any of these choices. Tools serve practices, not the other way around. The most important tool in my writing practice is the commitment to sit down at the same time every morning and write before I do anything else. No piece of software has contributed more to my output than that habit."],"free":false,"readTime":8},{"id":24,"slug":"monetizing-writing-without-selling-out","title":"Monetizing Your Writing Without Selling Out","subtitle":"The models that respect your readers and the ones that do not","date":"2024-02-04","category":"Essay","excerpt":"The anxiety about monetization in independent writing is partly about money and mostly about identity. Here is how I think about it.","fullText":["The phrase \"selling out\" haunts creative people in ways that are rarely examined clearly. It implies a transaction in which authenticity is exchanged for money — that the writer who charges for their work has somehow compromised something that the writer who gives it away for free has preserved. This is a romantic story that does not survive contact with the economics of creative work. Writers who cannot sustain themselves financially write less, worse, and eventually stop. The free newsletter funded by good intentions is not more authentic than the paid one; it is more precarious.","The models that I think deserve anxiety are the ones that create misaligned incentives between the writer and the reader: sponsored content that promotes products the writer would not use, affiliate arrangements that distort recommendations, and — the most insidious — optimizing for platform engagement metrics that reward outrage and simplicity rather than nuance. These are the forms of monetization that actually do compromise the work, because they change what the writer is optimizing for in ways that readers can eventually feel even when they cannot name them.","The subscription model, for all its challenges, is structurally aligned in a way that most other models are not. The reader pays the writer directly, which means the writer's incentive is to produce writing the reader finds valuable — not writing that a third party finds marketable, not writing optimized for an algorithm's engagement metrics. The relationship is between the writer and the reader. This is the oldest model for sustaining creative work, and the fact that the internet has made it newly viable at scale is one of the more genuinely hopeful things to happen to independent writing in my lifetime."],"free":false,"readTime":10},{"id":25,"slug":"on-creative-courage","title":"On Creative Courage","subtitle":"The difference between bravery and recklessness in public writing","date":"2024-01-28","category":"Essay","excerpt":"What it means to write bravely — and the distinctions that separate genuine creative courage from provocateurism.","fullText":["There is a kind of writing that calls itself brave but is actually just provocative — that courts controversy as a growth strategy, that says difficult things not because they are true and need saying but because difficulty generates attention. I have watched this pattern often enough to recognize it quickly, and I want to be precise about what distinguishes it from actual creative courage, because the distinction matters for how we evaluate writing and how we develop our own.","Creative courage, as I understand it, is writing something you believe to be true at the cost of some relationship, some professional opportunity, or some piece of your public image. It is saying the thing that the people you care about would prefer you did not say, not because you enjoy the conflict, but because not saying it would require you to misrepresent something you know. The test is whether you would say it privately to the people it implicates, not just publicly to an audience who agrees with you. Bravery that costs nothing is performance.","The writers I find most worth reading are not the most controversial or the most confrontational — they are the most honest. There is a distinction here that I think is important: honesty is not the same as bluntness, and neither is the same as courage. The courageous thing is often the quiet observation that everyone has implicitly agreed not to make — not the dramatic confrontation, but the uncomfortable truth stated plainly in a context where the plain statement carries risk. This requires a different kind of attention than provocation. It requires paying close attention to what is present in a room and choosing, carefully, whether to name it."],"free":false,"readTime":9},{"id":26,"slug":"financial-model-bootstrapped-creators","title":"My Complete Financial Model for Bootstrapped Creators","subtitle":"Revenue scenarios, burn rate, and reinvestment decisions for a one-person media business","date":"2024-05-06","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"The spreadsheet I use to model revenue scenarios, burn rate, and reinvestment decisions. Includes the exact formulas and the assumptions behind them.","fullText":["I am sharing my complete financial model for a one-person media business — not a simplified version, but the actual spreadsheet with all the formulas, the scenario modeling, and the assumptions I have tested and revised over three years of running this business. This level of transparency is unusual in the creator economy, and I am sharing it because I think the absence of this kind of financial modeling is one of the biggest reasons creator businesses fail in years two through four, after the initial growth has slowed and the simple revenue math stops working.","The model has three sections: a revenue model that accounts for subscription churn, cohort-level lifetime value, and the relationship between publishing frequency and subscriber growth; an expense model that distinguishes between fixed costs, variable costs, and investment costs; and a reinvestment decision framework that I use to evaluate whether to hire help, buy tools, or invest in audience growth. The reinvestment framework is where most of the judgment lives, and I explain the mental models behind each decision rule.","A note on what this model cannot do: it cannot tell you whether your work is good enough to sustain a subscription business at scale. Financial modeling is downstream of creative quality and audience fit. What it can do is help you understand the economics of your business well enough to make good decisions about where to invest time and money. A creator who does not understand their unit economics is flying blind. This model is an instrument panel — not a guarantee of safe landing, but better than nothing."],"free":false,"readTime":20},{"id":27,"slug":"client-im-firing-and-why","title":"The Client I Am Firing (And Why)","subtitle":"The financial analysis behind the decision, and what I learned","date":"2024-04-28","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"The financial analysis that led to the decision, the conversation I had, and what I learned about the difference between profitable work and valuable work.","fullText":["I am ending a client engagement that has been profitable on paper for two years. Profitable on paper, I want to underline, because the paper accounting omits the opportunity cost of the hours spent and the psychic cost of the particular kind of intellectual dishonesty required to keep the engagement going. I am writing about this for subscribers because I think the decision-making process is more useful to share than the decision itself — and because most writing about firing clients focuses on the moment of conflict rather than the months of deliberation that precede it.","The financial analysis: the engagement pays approximately $4,000 per month for work that takes, honestly accounted, about 60 hours. This is $66/hour, which sounds reasonable until you account for the fact that my next-best client pays me $150/hour for similar work and that I have been declining that kind of work because my schedule is full. The opportunity cost of the engagement is therefore around $5,400 per month — meaning I am effectively paying $1,400/month to maintain a client relationship that I find draining. This math should have been obvious two years ago. It was not, because I was doing the revenue accounting without doing the opportunity cost accounting.","The conversation was not difficult in the way I expected. I had rehearsed several versions of a difficult confrontation. What actually happened was that I explained, simply and without drama, that I was restructuring my client work and would not be continuing past the current contract term. The client was surprised but not angry. We agreed to a transition plan. The anticipatory anxiety, as is almost always the case with difficult conversations I have been avoiding, was worse than the actual conversation. I am noting this not because it always goes this way — sometimes it does not — but because the memory of times it went easily is a useful antidote to the catastrophizing that precedes these decisions."],"free":false,"readTime":16},{"id":28,"slug":"q1-2024-business-review","title":"Q1 2024 Business Review","subtitle":"Numbers, lessons, and the three bets I am making in Q2","date":"2024-04-14","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Full transparency on Q1 2024: revenue, expenses, what worked, what did not, and the three bets I am making in Q2.","fullText":["Q1 2024 numbers, as promised. Total revenue: $52,400 (newsletter subscriptions $38,200, client consulting $14,200). Total expenses: $13,800 (contractor help $7,200, tools and software $1,400, freelance editing $2,800, miscellaneous $2,400). Operating profit: $38,600. This is meaningfully higher than Q1 2023 ($29,100 operating profit) but lower than Q4 2023 ($44,200), which was an unusually good quarter driven by end-of-year subscription renewals.","What worked in Q1: the switch to weekly podcasts generated meaningfully more subscriber engagement than I expected — open rates on podcast weeks are about 12 points higher than on essay weeks, and paid subscription conversion is about 2.3x higher in the two weeks following a podcast issue. What did not work: the paid workshop I ran in February, which I expected to generate $8,000 and generated $3,200. Post-mortem on the workshop in a separate issue — there are specific things I would do differently.","Three bets for Q2: first, I am investing in audio production quality for the podcast, hiring a sound engineer to help me produce a cleaner episode. Second, I am experimenting with a lower-price annual option ($60/year versus the current $80/year) to see whether the lower friction increases net revenue per subscriber. Third, I am launching a \"recommended reading\" section for paid subscribers — a curated list of the best things I read each month. I expect this to increase retention more than it increases acquisition, which is where I most need improvement."],"free":false,"readTime":18},{"id":29,"slug":"tool-stack-behind-newsletter","title":"The Exact Tool Stack Behind This Newsletter","subtitle":"Every tool I pay for, what I use it for, and whether it is worth it","date":"2024-02-01","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"Every tool I pay for, what I use it for, what it costs, and whether I think it is worth it. Including the tools I have replaced and why.","fullText":["Complete tool stack as of February 2024, with costs and honest assessments. Substack: $0 (the newsletter platform takes 10% of revenue, which amounts to about $380/month at current subscriber levels — the highest \"cost\" in my stack, hidden in the revenue share model). Readwise: $7.99/month. Worth it — I use it daily and it has materially changed how I engage with the material I read. Obsidian: free for personal use. Indispensable. iA Writer: $49.99 one-time. Pays for itself monthly. Descript: $24/month for podcast editing. The AI-assisted editing has cut my post-production time by about 60%.","Tools I have dropped in the past year: Notion ($16/month, replaced by Obsidian which does the same things better for my use case), Calendly ($12/month, replaced by a simple email scheduling process that requires less friction for both parties), and Grammarly Premium ($30/month, which I found was making my writing more correct but less mine). Tools I am considering: a better email client (currently using default Mail, which is adequate but not great), and a project management tool to replace the text files I currently use for tracking client work.","The general principle I apply to tools: I will pay for software that saves me more than its cost in time or mental overhead, and I will not pay for software that imposes its own organizational logic on my work. The second criterion eliminates most project management software from consideration — most of it requires me to think in the tool's categories rather than my own. The first criterion means I pay readily for tools like Readwise and iA Writer, which reduce friction in practices that already exist rather than asking me to adopt new ones."],"free":false,"readTime":14},{"id":30,"slug":"year-in-review-2023","title":"Year in Review: 2023","subtitle":"What happened, what I learned, what I am carrying forward","date":"2024-01-01","category":"Newsletter","excerpt":"My complete annual review for 2023: the wins, the failures, the unexpected lessons, and what I am focusing on in 2024.","fullText":["2023 was the first year this newsletter generated more revenue than my consulting work — a threshold I had been targeting for two years and that took longer to reach than I expected. Total newsletter revenue for 2023: $187,400 (up from $98,200 in 2022). This growth was driven primarily by the addition of a paid tier in March 2023 and the resulting conversion of a significant portion of the free subscriber base to paid. The free subscriber list grew modestly — about 22% year over year. The paid subscriber count grew from 0 to 3,847.","The failure I want to document honestly: I launched a course in June 2023 that underperformed significantly. I projected $40,000 in revenue from the launch and generated $11,200. The post-mortem I did on this identified three factors: I launched too quickly without adequate market research; I priced it based on competitive benchmarking rather than my audience's demonstrated willingness to pay; and I underestimated the degree to which my readers are readers rather than course-takers. These are learnable lessons, and I will not repeat them in the same way. But the launch failure cost me about three months of distraction at a time when focused execution on the newsletter would have been more valuable.","What I am carrying forward into 2024: the weekly publishing cadence (which I adopted in September 2023 and which has been better for subscriber retention than the irregular cadence I used before), the practice of public quarterly business reviews (which have generated more subscriber goodwill than any other single thing I have tried), and the commitment to declining consulting projects that pay below $150/hour regardless of other factors. The consulting floor has been the single biggest quality-of-work improvement of the past two years."],"free":false,"readTime":15}]}]]}],["$","footer",null,{"className":"Footer_footer__UaG1g","children":["$","div",null,{"className":"Footer_inner__ACAek","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"Footer_top__b4wwC","children":[["$","p",null,{"className":"Footer_name__bnL2f","children":"Thinking in Public"}],["$","p",null,{"className":"Footer_tagline__EtMBR","children":"Ideas on craft, creativity, and building things that last — for writers, makers, and independent thinkers."}]]}],["$","nav",null,{"className":"Footer_nav__DEri8","aria-label":"Footer navigation","children":[["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/","className":"Footer_link__EWWOW","children":"Home"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/archive","className":"Footer_link__EWWOW","children":"Archive"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/about","className":"Footer_link__EWWOW","children":"About"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/subscribe","className":"Footer_link__EWWOW","children":"Subscribe"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/recommendations","className":"Footer_link__EWWOW","children":"Recommendations"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"Footer_divider__8xm49","role":"separator"}],["$","p",null,{"className":"Footer_copy__IbaoR","children":["© ",2026," ","Mara Ellison",". All rights reserved."]}]]}]}]]}]],null],null]},["$","$L5",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","segmentPath":["children","archive","children"],"error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L6",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","notFoundStyles":"$undefined","styles":[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/1020f48b2059ee3a.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined"}]]}],null]},[["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","className":"__variable_f367f3","children":["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L5",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","segmentPath":["children"],"error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L6",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":"404"}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],"notFoundStyles":[],"styles":null}]}]}],null],null],[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/e80daee6f9b0b6d4.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined"}]],"$L7"]]]]
7:[["$","meta","0",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","1",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","title","2",{"children":"Thinking in Public — Newsletter by Mara Ellison"}],["$","meta","3",{"name":"description","content":"Ideas on craft, creativity, and building things that last — for writers, makers, and independent thinkers. 14,000+ subscribers."}]]
1:null
